#V0.5

Q: Why is Goldkarpfen needed, aren't there enough communications platforms?
A1:
  Goldkarpfen is a real-pure p2p system. There are no centralized services needed to establish a Goldkarpfen-cloud. It is
  a tool that enables the user 100% - as the master - that controls his part of the network, without any compromise. With
  your Goldkarpfen instance, you have ALL the infrastructure that is needed to start a communication network : every
  instance of Goldkarpfen is a seed for the total network - there is no difference/hierarchy between users - the users
  are the rulers of this network.
A2:
  There are no other services (bootstrap nodes, account services, trackers, nameservers, blockchain...) needed, all you
  need is a transport-layer (tor, i2p, tld, mesh-nets, usb-sticks, sheets of paper...<- yes this works! just send me a
  post card with your new post, date, the new checksum and signature, and i can reseed your new archive :D )
  NOTE: also the update-provider can be changed at any time
A3:
  Goldkarpfen in its POSIX version gives total control to the user : your ITP-Stream, your stream collection, your node.
  The simplicity of the ITP-format enables the user to change and adapt the backend to his/her needs : as long as you
  offer a node-url with a valid server.dat and valid ITP-tarballs you can do whatever what you want.
A4:
  The things mentioned above plus the primitive-robust rules for exchange of itp-files makes this the ultimate
  communication paradise for the power user, who wants total control over her/his communication mechanics. Sure, this may
  be not for everyone. Users who expect their communication tool to be a product, which can be used effortless, will be
  disappointed - but we can expect, that others will build versions that are "more userfriendly" (<- which often means,
  control and power is taken away from the user).
A5:
  The Goldkarpfen is the result of a (half) livetime of analysis of the ETHICS OF CYBERNETICS.
  Humans MUST use (computer based) communication systems that are :

    - libre in the sense of the FSF
    - simple, robust, secure
    - decentralized (!)
    - modularized in a way, that each module can be maintained by a single person
    - anonymous
    - encrypted (private data)

  (or none)

  Humans that are not willed to follow (afap) this IMPERATIVE will face a terrible, grim (not so far) future...
             ... so terrible... beyond your imagination ...

A6:
  You don't need a "nerd-diploma" to start with Goldkarpfen and if you try it, you will learn - step by step - more and
  more about the beauty of the text-based interface of your *nix-system, which is the most powerful way to control a
  computer and therefore the computer-world.
     ~~~ a computer that hosts a working Goldkarpfen <°)))>< is a happy computer ~~~

Q: Why exchange files only once a day?
Many users are baffeled that the Goldkarpfen/ITP is desinged that way, that itp-files are only synced on a daily basis.
A1:
  There are technical reasons : it makes a p2p system like this robust and reliable and makes it even usable if you
  have a limited bandwidth.
A2:
  It is a more human aproach to communication (having publishing in mind): It is something you have to try for some
  time : it will reduce stress and improve the quality of content.
A3:
  This way we can establish a group communication under the worst conditions, where even a network connection isn't avaible.
  The itp-files could be exchanged via usb-sticks or adhoc-networks ; the time resolution based on days is the natural
  choice for that.

Q: Why the ?*$! POSIX-SHELL?
A1:
  POSIX-SHELL has many limitations, has only global variables and produces some messy code and a lot of nasty bugs, BUT:
  - it is a very solid and matured standard, that is, and will be, the heart of any *nix system
  - the limitations of it will force the overall size of a project to a sane level
  - it is platform independent (more or less - depending on the prog's we use) (i guess we can port GK to (nearly) any
    *nix system)
  - the *nix designers had POSIX-SHELL as the main control interface in mind, when designing the system - it's just the
    obvious choice
  - if mastered ... it is just such a powerful and joyful way of achieving things with so little
A2:
  It is the best machine dialect (i wouldn't call any of those language) i found - it is just perfect.
A3:
  It may be not for you, but you can analyse the ITP-format and crypto (standard old school BTC) and build a compatible
  client in ANY machine dialect: elisp, pyhton, Go, C, C++ ...

Q: How can we interpret the version?
A:
  The leading 2 stands for the feature set. 1 was only the itp-reader, 2 stands for the reader with node management.
  The second number is the "real life proof indicator" ; 0 was alpha-early_beta, 1 stands for "real life tested".
  The last number is the running number, resulting in a version like : VERSION-2.1.xyz

Q: Why the protocol break with BTC?
A1:
  It is more secure.
A2:
  To make clear that Goldkarpfen/ITP is not connected to the blockchain ; we are just using a similar crypto.
A3:
  I think it looks nicer ;)

Q: Why not comments of comments (of comments of comments...)?
A1:
  Comments of posts are already secondary in the ITP-format (because of the async nature of the system). Discussions with
  comments require both participants to be "subscribed" to each other. A comments-of-comments tree under a post will be
  too chaotic if too many different users comment on each others comments and other users, who are not subscribed to all
  of those users, would try to understand it.
A2:
  I wasn't a big fan of comments-of-comments trees anyway - i think the post-comment structure is more focused and keeps
  the primary topic (the post) prioritized and is in general a less chaotic structure.

Q: Why not utilizing minute-based timestamps for post/comments?
A:
  One main goal of the ITP-format was to create more calm way of communication to improve the overall quality of the
  content. "The daily routine" ; planing content on a daily basis, checking it and publishing it after carefully
  thinking, will produce better user generated content. Also, the reductionist format produces less metadata and that,
  with the 9 post/comments-limitation, keeps the files smaller.

Q: Why not establish some kind of private channel between 2 users?
A:
  The Goldkarpfen/ITP is designed to follow the *nix rules, esp. "do one thing and do it perfectly". The one thing
  Goldkarpfen/ITP is designed for : a share hosted p2p publishing system: it is made for publishing. For private
  conversations you should use better suited tools (like eg. tox)
    NOTE: you can build plugins to implement inline encryption/decryption and/or 1-to-1 connections (without open
    publishing)

Q: i2p or tor for Goldkarpfen hosting?
A1:
  If you only want to use one : i2p is the choice then
  (driven by enthusiasts, more decentralized, better performance : esp. on weekends)
A2:
  Use both, if possible : the resource requirements for that are moderate and it's easy to do.

Q: What about that gopher thing?
A:
  The support for a gopher server makes sense, if you also want to host a gopher-page on your GK-node.

Q: Which editor do you use/suggest?
A1:
  vis
A2:
  As long as you use a libre one - the choice of editor doesn't matter that much.

Q: Which www-browser do you use/suggest?
A: I suggest to leave the www and use Goldkarpfen instead (if i am forced to use one i prefer lynx).

#LICENSE:CC0
